README.md, before:

# bcfishpass_rail

A sample collection of queries for `bcfishpass` reporting:

- report on modelled impacts of railways to habitat connectivity for salmon (Chinook, Coho, Steelhead) and Steelhead in the Fraser basin
- for the most part, queries can be adjusted to accomodate any supported feature type (eg, roads, dams), species, or area of interest

## Prep data

Load exclusion area (we exclude everything downstream of Agassiz)
    
    ogr2ogr -f PostgreSQL $DATABASE_URL \
    -lco OVERWRITE=YES \
    -t_srs EPSG:3005 \
    -lco SCHEMA=temp \
    -lco GEOMETRY_NAME=geom \
    -nln lateral_exclusion \
    -nlt PROMOTE_TO_MULTI \
    data/lateral_exclusion.shp

## Running the reports

With the `bcfishpass` database loaded and set as your `$DATABASE_URL`, the report is a collection of queries:

1. Generate a study area

        psql $DATABASE_URL -f sql/study_area.sql

2. Generate summaries per watershed group within study area, columns are described in `overview_columns.csv`

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/overview.sql > overview.csv

3. Generate per-crossing report, columns are described in `rail_crossings_columns.csv`

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/rail_crossings.sql > rail_crossings.csv

4. Sumarize length modelled habitat in the study area, and the length/pct potentially inaccessible due to rail barriers (first query summarizes per watershed group, second is total for the entire study area)

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/output1.sql > output1.csv
        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/output1_studyarea.sql > output1_studyarea.csv

5. Generate draft lateral habitat report

        psql $DATABASE_URL -f sql/lateral_potential_fraser.sql 
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select sum(st_area(geom)) / 10000 from temp.lateral_potential_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select sum(st_area(geom)) / 10000 from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select count(*) from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select avg(st_area(geom) / 10000) from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/lateral_by_wsg.sql > lateral_area_by_wsg.csv

6. Generate restoration scenarios for rail barriers with up to 4 additional crossings

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/sets_of_five.sql > rail_sets_of_five.csv

Commit message:

add pink and chum to reporting, update queries to work with new access model columns

README.md, after:

# bcfishpass_rail

A sample collection of queries for `bcfishpass` reporting:

- report on modelled impacts of railways to habitat connectivity for Pacific Salmon (Chinook, Chum, Coho, Pink, Sockeye) and Steelhead
- for the most part, queries can be adjusted to accomodate any supported feature type (eg, roads, dams), species, or area of interest

## Prep data

Load exclusion area (for lateral analysis, we exclude the Fraser Valley downstream of Agassiz)
    
    ogr2ogr -f PostgreSQL $DATABASE_URL \
    -lco OVERWRITE=YES \
    -t_srs EPSG:3005 \
    -lco SCHEMA=temp \
    -lco GEOMETRY_NAME=geom \
    -nln lateral_exclusion \
    -nlt PROMOTE_TO_MULTI \
    data/lateral_exclusion.shp

## Running the reports

With the `bcfishpass` database loaded and set as your `$DATABASE_URL`, the report is a collection of queries:

1. Generate a study area

        psql $DATABASE_URL -f sql/study_area.sql

2. Generate summaries per watershed group within study area, columns are described in `overview_columns.csv`

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/overview.sql > overview.csv

3. Generate per-crossing report, columns are described in `rail_crossings_columns.csv`

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/rail_crossings.sql > rail_crossings.csv

4. Sumarize length modelled habitat in the study area, and the length/pct potentially inaccessible due to rail barriers (first query summarizes per watershed group, second is total for the entire study area)

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/output1.sql > output1.csv
        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/output1_studyarea.sql > output1_studyarea.csv

5. Generate draft lateral habitat report

        psql $DATABASE_URL -f sql/lateral_potential_fraser.sql 
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select sum(st_area(geom)) / 10000 from temp.lateral_potential_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select sum(st_area(geom)) / 10000 from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select count(*) from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql $DATABASE_URL -c "select avg(st_area(geom) / 10000) from temp.lateral_disconnected_fraser"
        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/lateral_by_wsg.sql > lateral_area_by_wsg.csv

6. Generate restoration scenarios for rail barriers with up to 4 additional crossings

        psql2csv $DATABASE_URL < sql/sets_of_five.sql > rail_sets_of_five.csv
